---
title: "Understanding the Personal Networks of People Experiencing Homelessness in King County, WA with Aggregate Relational Data"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2026-02-01-sn2
excerpt: ''
date: 2026-02-01
venue: 'Social Networks'
paperurl: 'https://depts.washington.edu/zalmquist/articles/almquist_SN2.pdf'
citation: 'Almquist, Z., Kahveci, I., Kajfasz, O., Rothfolk, J., & Hagopian, A. (2026). <a href="https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378873326000158">Understanding the Personal Networks of People Experiencing Homelessness in King County, WA with Aggregate Relational Data</a>. <i>Social Networks</i>, 86, 150-172.'
---

**Abstract**

The social networks of people experiencing homelessness are an understudied but vital aspect of their lives, offering access to information, support, and safety. In 2023, the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development reported 653,100 people experiencing homelessness on any given night -- a 23% rise since 2022, though likely an undercount. This paper examines a unique three-year dataset (2022-2024) of survey responses from over 3,000 unhoused individuals in King County, WA, collected via network-based sampling methods to estimate the unsheltered population. Our study analyzes the networks of the unsheltered population, focusing on acquaintance, close friendship, kinship, and peer referral networks. Findings reveal a decline in social connectivity over time. The average number of acquaintances dropped from 80 in 2023 to 40 in 2024. Close friendship levels remained stable at 2.5, but given the growth in the homeless population, this suggests decreased network connectivity. Kinship networks expanded, indicating that more family members of unhoused individuals are also experiencing homelessness. These trends suggest increasing social disconnection, possibly driven by displacement and a rise in newly homeless individuals. The growing isolation may reduce opportunities for information sharing and mutual support. However, the increased reliance on family networks highlights the shifting dynamics of social support within this community. This research underscores the need for policies fostering social connections and community building, such as reducing displacement and providing spaces for congregation, to counter the growing anomie among unhoused populations.
